[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>ANNOUNCER: And now,
world-renowned spirit medium
James Van Praagh.
>>JAMES VAN PRAAGH:
Hi, everyone!
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
And thank everyone
for watching also
for another episode of "Spirit
Talk," where I take you
one step closer to heaven.
So I want to thank you all for
being here today, joining us.
And today, I thought we would
talk about something which
I think affects
every single person.
So everybody sitting
here and at home, I just
want you to just
look back at what's
going on with you right
now at this moment,
this particular
moment right now.
You are a total summation
of all the experiences
you've ever had in your life.
I would say past lives
as well, but we're not
going to go back that far.
We're just going to stay in
this current life right here.
So just look back
and I just want
you to see what
influenced your life
to make you who you are today.
So as I look at
your faces, I just
want you to look back at your
life and just assess your life.
And I just want you to
be honest, which is fine,
because this is just
for your own benefit.
And just ask
yourself what energy,
what belief systems, what old
patterns, what guilt, what
relationships, what energy
am I holding onto presently
that does not serve
my highest good?
[SIGH]
It's a big one, isn't it?
It's a big one.
So I believe-- and as I
was driving here today
to the studio, spirit
just gave me this
into my mind to really share
with everybody to do this,
because it's a real
healing in that.
Every single day is a
new opportunity to grow.
Every single day.
And I, today, along with
my friends in the spirit,
want you to sit in
a moment of healing
and sit in a moment
of releasing.
So today's show is
called Letting Go.
And it's really
going to be letting
go of the old stuff that
no longer serves you well.
And then we're going to find
out why are you still holding
onto it?
So if you think
about something, what
are you holding onto still
that you really want to let go?
Anybody?
>>AUDIENCE: Bad habits.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So one lady said
here, "bad habits."
So would you mind standing up?
We'll get a microphone to you.
First of all, what is your
name please, sweetheart?
>>AUDIENCE: My name is Amy.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your name is Amy.
Hi, Amy.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, hi.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So you
said it's hard for you
to let go of old habits.
OK.
Can we be more specific?
What old habits?
>>AUDIENCE: All sorts of things.
Thinking-- thinking habits.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Thinking habits.
Stop right there.
So it's everything that you say,
as far as what you're saying,
it's going to help
the people watching,
everybody here in the audience.
So number one, how
many people here
have problems with
thinking too much?
Raise your hand.
Everyone.
At home as well.
Thinking too much.
Overthinking in your head
to try to rationalize,
try to control things.
>>AUDIENCE: Trying to
make things happen.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Trying
to make things happen.
Very good.
So if you're in your head
trying to make things happen
all the time, because
you're thinking,
and you have a thought
that I think about it,
the more I think about it,
the more it's going to happen.
Not really, because
you'll get in your way.
You'll overthink something.
And that happens all the time
with spirit communication,
too, when I have audiences
come to the studio,
and they think, if I'm just
thinking of a loved one,
if I think more about them,
they're going to be here.
Just the opposite.
It pushes them away.
So when we're
overthinking things,
we're giving it not the energy
it needs to really manifest,
OK?
Where you want to bring
that energy for anything
in your life that you want
to really-- is release that
stuff in the head and bring
the truth into your heart, OK?
And send it out with
your heart and then you
send it to the universe.
And it will manifest.
So old habits.
One more thing when
you're thinking
about-- thinking, thinking,
thinking-- a lot of people
in meditation have problems
with overthinking, right?
Lot of us overthink things.
I have found that if you
have a thought in your head,
you just acknowledge
that thought, acknowledge
it's there, and you
let go of judgment.
You release it.
OK, I understand I
had this thought.
And then you release it and
let it go to the universe.
And if you need to go take a
breath after that, let it go.
Let it go.
And let the universe
take care of it.
Yeah.
And I know it's also
a control thing.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I have
something to tell you.
You have no control.
In a way you do, though.
So you cannot control
that mind chatter.
You can control how
you respond to it.
So like I said, if you
just really breathe into it
and release it
knowing, OK, I see it.
It's going to be.
And take away the judgment.
Takes away the critical
mind, and fitting it
into judgment of it's got
to be this way-- yes, no.
Let it go with the way it is.
Neutralize it.
Just try to neutralize it.
And if you neutralize it, and it
gives more power for it to go.
OK?
So what other bad habits you're
talking about besides thinking.
What other things come
up that you were still
holding onto that's not
serving your highest good?
>>AUDIENCE: My vices.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Your vices.
What are your vices?
Curiously.
Curiously, he asked!
Yes.
Look at her face!
It's turning red!
I'm psychic.
I know them anyways.
>>AUDIENCE: Drinking
and smoking weed.
I would like to let
go of both of those.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So there's
a judgment on that.
And why are you judging that?
>>AUDIENCE: Because
I feel like--
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's society?
Maybe that background--
>>AUDIENCE: It's
partially society.
It's also that I
feel it's holding me
in a space of not being
able to transform in the way
that I want to as a person.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Well great.
You're being very
honest; it's fabulous,
and I appreciate that.
And I think, number
one, you got to stop
being so hard on yourself.
Stop being so difficult.
How many people here
have addictions or vices?
Raise your hands.
I know, outside people
watching this, you all do.
This three-dimensional world
is the addictive world.
In other words, we as
souls come back here,
and many of the main lessons
we work on are addictions.
Because we work through
these addictions
of physical vibration.
OK?
We got to be very, very
careful that everything in life
really needs to be, if you
will, everything in life
needs to be in moderation.
I have no problem with
smoking weed and drinking
and, hey, I'm good with
that-- if it's in moderation.
OK?
I think sometimes
when we take something
and we abuse it, or
overuse it, we're
not-- then we don't focus.
I don't think that's with you.
Yeah?
And I think it's OK every once
in a while to enjoy something
like that, whether
it's riding a bike,
going hiking, smoking weed,
having a drink, singing a song,
taking a day off of work.
Whatever.
As long as it's in moderation.
Sometimes we need that.
And sometimes we need that
because we need to rest.
If we're constantly
go go go go go
go go go-- it's not
going to work for us.
If we can just take a moment
of stopping, and sometimes
it forces us to stop, and
we want to lose ourselves.
Because if we're thinking,
over-thinking so much like you
are in your head, I'm thinking,
I'm thinking, I'm thinking.
You need to stop that.
And sometimes you have to
stop that by letting go,
getting out of the body, in your
mind, whether that's drinking
alcohol, smoking
weed, putting yourself
in a different state
of consciousness.
It's bringing yourself to a
different state of conscious
so you can get away
from all that thinking.
And that's all that is.
>>AUDIENCE: That's exactly
what it does for me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's exactly
what it does for you.
So that's fine.
So let's release, if
we could, and let's
say not necessarily release,
but looking at it differently,
as far as the perspective of
it of why you're doing that,
and you continue to do it,
but moderation is fine.
And maybe just work
on over-thinking.
Because that's
feeding the addiction.
That's feeding that behavior.
You know what I mean?
So just start looking
at it that way.
OK?
Good.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH:
You're very welcome.
And it's just a mirror to you.
I'm really just a
mirror reflecting
what you already know.
I'm just-- you know this.
So good, very good.
Anybody else?
Yes.
All the way in the
back of the room.
This gentleman right here.
Would you might standing please?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And what
is your first name?
>>AUDIENCE: My
parent's name is Sasha.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
let's call you Sasha.
Is that OK?
>>AUDIENCE: That's OK.
Yeah, we can.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So
what came up for you?
>>AUDIENCE: But it
comes with the themes
of what I thought about,
which is identity.
What is identity?
And how is it impinge
on possibility?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Well that's
a whole different show.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
Well, no, you said letting go.
So let's let go, what I thought
of is letting go of identity.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So what's holding you
back from identity?
Do I-- do I identify with
what your parents gave you,
what they thought
of who you are?
Are you not what
they think you are?
What's holding you
back as far as--
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, I would say
it's just-- it's a lot of,
you know, it's your name,
it's when you were born.
This is who you are,
where you're from.
It's a lot of
information I don't need.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
it's not who you are.
>>AUDIENCE: Exactly.
At the core.
So.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fabulous.
>>AUDIENCE: So that's what I
would say is my life's work.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I'm
going to call you
Matthew, because you look
like Matthew McConaughey.
>>AUDIENCE: That's seemed fine.
See, I was going to
ask you to name me.
You name me.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Matthew.
Matthew.
>>AUDIENCE: So today,
right now, I'm Matthew.
That's cool.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I
think it's great.
I think it's great
what you're saying.
And I think what
you're saying is--
I think a lot of people in
this audience are sharing that.
How many people tend to
live-- in this audience
right here, how many people tend
to live the lives that people
expect of them, what
you're supposed to be,
that your parents thought
you were going to be,
living up to their
expectations, trying
to live up to
people's expectations?
Raise your hands.
Yeah.
A lot of people.
And a lot of people out there.
And most-- only because
this is Boulder,
so there's people a little
more aware of things,
I think, in Colorado, obviously.
But it's a great, great point
that you bring, Matthew.
It's a great point
that you bring up.
And I'm going to
share this with you,
because of the work that
I do with the spirit
world, many times they'll
come back and they'll say,
you're not what
people think you are.
You're not, you know,
the job that they
want you to be success.
You have to have money.
You have to do this to
please other people.
If I do this and get married,
that's what they expect of me,
and then they'll
honor me and love me.
And that's a trap.
That's an illusion.
And we have to remember that in
this three-dimensional world,
it is the world of the illusion.
It's not the truth here.
This is not true.
This is not real.
This is really just our stage,
literally and figuratively,
this three-dimensional world
is really just a stage.
It's an illusion.
Don't get caught
up in the illusion.
And if you get caught up in
the illusion of other people,
of what they expect of you, and
you fall into that trap of what
they expect of me, then
you fall into the illusion.
And you're not living
your authentic.
>>AUDIENCE: Totally true.
Totally true.
I totally feel
what you're saying.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah.
I know you do.
Of course.
And it's your genuine self.
And I think with you
it's just a matter
of letting go of those
old ways of thinking.
The old ways are patterns
that people placed upon you,
and that you gave energy to.
>>AUDIENCE: For sure.
For sure.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Like
a lot of us do.
A lot of us give life to
what other people think,
because we want to
be accepted by them.
We want to be loved by them.
And we often think that
if we just do this,
what they expect of us,
then they'll love us.
>>AUDIENCE: So it's
all about love, right?
>>VAN PRAAGH: It's
all about love.
But you have to love yourself.
And you have to honor
yourself enough not
to live in other
people's illusions.
So fabulous.
We'll work with you today.
And I'm glad you've stood up.
And you-- just by you
standing up, Matthew,
you may have helped many, many
people that are watching this.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
Thank you, my friend.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Anybody else.
Yes, we have a lady right here.
Yes.
You have one.
What is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Libby.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Hi,
Libby, how are you?
Could I just hug you?
Because I think I
just want to hug you.
>>AUDIENCE: Whoops!
Sorry.
The biggest day.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I beg your pardon?
It's not that type
of show, Libby!
So tell us what
came into your mind.
>>AUDIENCE: I think
one of the things
that I really struggle
with is feeling
responsible for
everybody else's stuff.
Happiness, for sure.
And it has given me an ulcer.
And I have to remind
myself, I can't
control-- there's
that word-- control.
But I can't control
everybody else's lives.
And I try.
And they probably
don't like me for it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Isn't that great?
Who cares what
other people think?
What other people think of
you is none of your business.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right?
So you've got to be in
that space of receptivity
and realization and
self-empowerment,
in the sense that I am who I am.
I'm a beautiful, light
being, a light soul,
coming back on this planet
to bring light and illuminate
the planet.
To every single person
who comes upon my path,
I'm here to enlighten them.
If they receive that
enlightenment, fine.
If they don't, that's fine.
That's their trip.
That's their story, not mine.
I can't force people
to be enlightened.
I cannot force people
to see the way I see.
to understand the way I
understand.
And that's not why I'm here.
And if I'm going to live in that
illusionary world of falling
into that, I'll never be happy.
And you're not right now,
because so far you've
lived your whole life
up to this point.
It was like, I got to
take care of people.
I'm a caretaker.
I see my role as a caretaker.
My character in this time around
in this play is the caretaker.
Now I know I hugged you,
because so many of us
fall into that character,
that role of caretaker.
I have to take care of that
person to help heal them.
I have to take care that person
to make them feel better.
I gotta do that because
of just who I am.
To a point.
But you can't forget about
taking care of yourself first.
What good are you
to other people
if you can't take care
of yourself first?
Yeah.
So when you say
ulcer, I know that.
I had an ulcer once, years
ago before I worked on myself.
Years ago before I
felt, you know what?
I have to honor myself.
And I'm not talking
about the ego self.
It's a very different thing.
Honoring my soul.
Honoring my purpose.
Honoring who I am as
a spiritual being.
And you know, look
at me as an example.
OK?
I did this work for 30 years.
I talk to dead
people for a living.
Hello?
I mean, when I first
started doing this,
nobody was out there.
And that's a tough thing.
It's a lonely road
sometimes, right?
But you have to
be true yourself.
The more-- the truer
you are to yourself,
the more freedom you
have in your life.
It's who you are.
So you don't have to be
anything-- anyone but yourself.
So we're going to help you
to release all that old stuff
which you think of who you
are instead of who you are.
A lot of us think who we are
instead of who we truly are.
Our genuine self, right?
And other people's
influences in our lives.
It happens.
Yeah.
OK.
Thank you, sweetie.
Can I hug you again
one more time?
OK.
You're a sweetheart.
And I was going to say,
everybody respects you,
as far as the worlds
around us, the realms
around us, the spirit
realms, for who you are.
And they just want you
to take care of yourself.
Yeah.
And that'll be good.
Alkaline diet.
How about one more?
One more of the
stuff that came up.
Yes.
I'm going to go to
Alanis Morissette, who's
sitting next
Matthew McConaughey.
>>AUDIENCE: I've never
gotten that before.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Kelly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kelly,
would you mind standing?
Hi, sweetheart.
What came up for you in that?
>>AUDIENCE: Letting go of
old patterns with my husband.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Are you
currently married?
>>AUDIENCE: I am.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Were you
married once before?
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
So can you share with us
what patterns those are?
>>AUDIENCE: It's a
pattern of things
that's happened to
my insecurities,
and certainly his insecurities.
And they come.
They unfold--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Like
what, insecure?
>>AUDIENCE: I think
I am a pleaser,
and I need to make sure
everyone's happy all the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Pleaser.
>>AUDIENCE: And he has insecur--
>>VAN PRAAGH: And why do
you think it's important
that you have to make him feel--
why do you have to please?
Why do you have to please?
>>AUDIENCE: I think
I need to make
sure everyone's happy
around me all the time.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Why?
>>AUDIENCE: I
think honestly it's
an old pattern that
started way before me.
It feels like something
that started--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Past lives?
>>AUDIENCE: A generation.
Maybe past lives as well.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
can be generational.
Those things pass
into generations.
>>AUDIENCE: I feel
like it's something
that passed from my
parents for sure.
I feel like I'm playing out
a pattern that they had.
And uncannily, it's happened
now with me and my husband, who
seems nothing like my
father who passed away.
And my husband seems
nothing like my father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I hope not.
I hope you didn't
marry your father.
>>AUDIENCE: I don't think I did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's,
like, another whole thing.
>>AUDIENCE: I didn't set
out to do that at all,
and yet it's the
exact same pattern
that I had watched in my
parents, unfolds with us.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yes.
We tend to sometimes
repeat patterns
of behavior with parents.
That we tend to
live in those roles
that we were taught as kids.
And we sometimes associate love,
and that's how we receive love.
Can I just share
with you, Kelly,
something very important?
A realization which
I think you know.
But today's a brand new day.
Yeah?
Yesterday was yesterday.
Today's a brand new day.
And tomorrow's future
is all different.
So you have the power right
now to release old patterns.
And the first way
of doing that is
having them come to the
surface and acknowledging them.
So for all of us
here in the audience,
it's acknowledging old
patterns of behavior,
old ways of thinking, other
people's energy in our space.
Don't need it.
If it's not serving your
highest good, you can let it go.
You can let it go.
And I think you'll
feel a lot better,
because I think they entrap us.
They entrap our soul,
they entrap our spirit,
and I would just like you
to-- so today we'll do that.
You're acknowledging that, and
we're going let that one go,
too.
Good.
Very good.
OK.
Very good, everybody.
Give yourselves a round
of applause for that.
Very good.
So what I'd like
to do is I'd like
to bring you through
a process right now.
And the process is like a
meditation, or a mind journey.
And it's really a
work that I've been
doing for many,
many years, which
has helped so many
people to look
at themselves in
a different light
and to really connect with their
true essence of themselves.
So it's just going to be a
little bit of a mind journey.
And just go with me with it.
And I think you'll enjoy.
OK?
All right.
So just close your eyes
and sit back in your chair.
We're going to have
some music playing,
and I'll guide you through this.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So just sit with your feet on
the floor if you could please.
And I just want you
to close your eyes.
Close your eyes.
Everyone at home,
just close your eyes.
Get into a safe-- nice
space, comfortable space
where you won't be interrupted.
Just take a deep
breath, and exhale.
Just let it go.
Let it go.
Great.
And as we enter into
this space of healing,
into this space of connectivity,
into this space of awareness,
we're going to do
that in the mind.
The mind is a spirit.
The mind is our soul.
And we're going to let our
soul take over and connect, be
with us, integrate with us.
So in your mind,
I'd like you to be
just aware, mindful
of your physical body
sitting in the chair.
Just be mindful of the sound of
my voice, the music behind it.
And I just want you to
be mindful yet again, now
the energy of your feet on the
floor, your legs, your backs
on the chairs, your
shoulders and your arms,
chest back, your
neck and your head.
Be mindful of the body itself.
The inside of the body.
Muscles and organs
and tissues and cells.
And as you become mindful,
along with that mindfulness,
bring a sense of gratitude--
gratitude to the physical body,
for the heart that pumps
that blood to feed the body.
Gratitude.
Thank you.
Appreciation to the body
for getting you from one
place to another.
Good.
Connect with your heart.
The heart, the seat of the soul,
is really where we come from.
That's our source.
And this is just an observation.
That's all it is.
Just for you to observe.
There's no judgment here.
It's just as if you're
observing something,
like you're reading a book.
So I just want you to be aware
of a beautiful light that
comes from the heaven
and shines down upon you.
The spirit world
has come together.
They've all come together
to form this light
to share with you right
now at this moment.
It's a unique light for
who you are as a soul.
And they just want to bring
that light into your awareness.
Into the entire
beingness of who you are.
To reconnect with that light.
So together we're going
to fill up our heart
with that beautiful
light of the spirit.
Whatever color, shape,
feeling you have is just fine.
So together, let's inhale
that beautiful light,
and inhale through the nose.
Holding it two, three,
four, and exhale.
And let it go.
Letting it go.
And one more time.
And inhale.
Holding it two, three,
four, and exhale.
Good.
And as you sit there now, in
your imagination, in your mind,
I would like for you
to envision yourself
in a beautiful park, a beautiful
field of green, green grass,
flowers and trees of any design
you create in your imagination.
And as you're walking
into that park,
you are pulling
behind you a wagon,
like a little red wagon
we had as children,
just carrying that wagon
into the center of that park.
And as you're
carrying that wagon
to the center of
that park, we notice
there's a lovely hot air balloon
in the center of that park,
beautifully ornate,
purples and reds.
That balloon is so pretty.
And we notice as we look at
that balloon, the colors,
the design fits
us just perfectly.
It's as if that is
part of our soul.
That's part of our character,
our description that's there.
So just acknowledge that that
hot air balloon is part of us.
Yes?
Very good.
And now I just want you to
imagine that you're pulling up
that wagon to that
hot air balloon.
And that wagon is
filled with boxes.
Boxes.
And each box has a label which
represents old belief systems.
One box says, "I give too much."
Caretaker.
Over-giving.
Take that box and put it into
the basket of the hot air
balloon.
Judgment might be another one.
Take that.
Put it in the balloon.
Any old patterns.
Behavioral patterns.
Loving too much.
Not loving enough.
Whatever you get in the
box that has a label.
You might pull out
of the box that
has a label you
never even expected.
Maybe guilt.
There might be one
saying "resentment."
saying "self-criticism."
Maybe one, "other
people's lives."
There might be one for
someone that's passed over,
and their name is on there.
These boxes contain
things-- energy
that you are holding
onto that are not
serving your highest good.
Anything that is not
serving your highest
good of your soul, that is not
in alignment with your purpose
for being here at this
moment in time and space
on this earth
school, we're going
to put that in the
bottom of that basket.
Time to let it go.
Time to release old behaviors.
Time to release old resentments.
Time to release old friends,
family members, those people
in our lives who
are holding us back
from being truthful
to ourselves.
Who in your life
is holding you back
from your pure light of being?
You no longer need
to take care of them.
They need to take
care of themselves.
And I'm releasing myself, old
friends, old relationships,
old situations that are not
serving my highest good.
And I'm releasing them now, too,
putting them in that basket.
So look in that basket.
It's pretty full now, isn't it?
And let it go.
It's all right to just
put it in that basket.
In that basket.
And as you empty that
wagon, putting everything
that basket, when
the time is ready,
I want you to untie the ropes
of that hot air balloon.
When you are ready
to release and let
go of those old
structures which you
think you were, who you
are, who you identify with,
what you identify with--
it's not who you truly are.
Those are the illusions that
you try to make who you are.
Untie that rope
and let it fly up.
Let's go up and up
and up, and honor it
and celebrate it, because
all of those things,
all those issues,
all those patterns,
taught you something
about yourself.
Taught you boundaries, gave you
more of an awareness of you.
Let them go now.
Release.
Take a deep breath
as we release.
And inhale.
And now exhale, and
release that balloon.
And let it go up in the sky.
Let it go, let it go, let it go.
Watch it.
Watch it ascend up.
Thank them-- gratitude--
for all those lessons,
all those people, all those
issues, all those behaviors no
longer serving you.
And as you release
them, I want you now
to look down at your body and
become aware of the new clothes
that you're wearing.
The new, perhaps,
robes, clothes.
How bright they are.
How light they are.
As you look down and become
mindful of you, now, that soul,
how different do you look?
How much lighter do you feel?
You're yourself again.
Look and see your true
self, your soul self.
See how bright.
See the colors you've
never seen before.
The designs and the patterns
that have always been there,
but you never let
yourself see them.
Deep breath, and exhale.
In that new space.
And as you look
back at that wagon,
it is now a gorgeous carriage--
a horse-drawn carriage
that has your name on it.
You're welcome.
Your higher self--
your true self--
has been waiting for
you for a long time.
Now climb aboard that carriage
and go live your true life.
And take a deep breath.
And exhale.
And let it be.
Love is the answer.
Love is the strongest
force in this universe.
As you come back into
the space of this body,
this physical space here in
this studio, the physical space
of your body if you're watching
this, be mindful of your feet
again, your legs, your backs,
your shoulders, your arms,
chest, your heart,
shoulders, head.
Bring back that sense
of love of self,
that beautiful light
from your heart.
Surround yourself from
the top of your head
to the bottom of your feet
with that loving energy.
Maybe for some of you, it's a
first time to acknowledge that.
Love by its very nature is
not to keep, but to share.
So please send that to the
person on your right side,
and wrap them from
the top of the head,
the bottom of their feet.
As we sit together
in this one energy,
we ask, Divine heavenly
parent, we ask your blessing
on this meeting.
Dear spirit friends,
draw near to me.
Spirit friends,
speak clear to me.
Spirit friends, slow
down your voices.
When we hear, the
heart rejoices.
Give us glimpses of eternity.
And let us know
that you are free.
Give us names and
facts and places.
Help us to understand
Heaven's graces.
Send your thoughts upon me
with emotion and simplicity
as we sit together in
peace, love, harmony,
and the true essence
of our being.
Slowly open up your
eyes and be as one.
Wow.
Do you look brighter
and happier.
Good one, yeah?
That's really, really good.
And you have to feel
it right now instantly.
I'm crying.
It's a process.
So just be with that.
You can always use that.
It's a process for
releasing and letting go.
And it's good to let go.
It's so much lighter.
And life happens so much easier.
You look better.
More happy with
yourselves, yeah?
Yeah, it's great.
It's great.
As I touch the
spirit world for you,
I become aware now as
I move into the space.
I'm very aware of a gentleman
that comes to my mind.
I'm very aware that
he has brown hair.
in his younger life
he's a pretty carefree,
go-lucky kind of guy.
I know I'm Robert.
My name is Robert, or Bob.
I'm very aware that
in the lifetime here
there would have been
a woman left behind,
and I do feel it might have
been my wife who's still alive,
who is still around here.
And I just got to go with that.
I know that I'm a father figure.
And I know I need to do that.
So who does that make sense to?
It makes sense to you.
OK.
Would you mind standing please?
>>AUDIENCE: I just
start crying right away.
Oh my gosh.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
should be crying
right away, because
it's very emotional.
And why do we cry?
Because it touches our heart.
Can I just say--
And your name is?
>>AUDIENCE: Kelly.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kelly.
I just want to say that
this gentleman is coming
through very, very
strong, and he's
giving me a sense
that someone was
not there when he passes away.
Was that you?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Right.
So I know as he comes through
here, for his healing,
he needs to let you know
the fact that you need
to forgive yourself
for not being there.
And that was one of things
I hope you let go of.
Because that stuff,
we don't need.
I know that he's
trying to help you
more now than he was
able to in the lifetime,
because geographically he wasn't
there for you in the lifetime.
Understand that?
He wasn't a part of you
physically in the lifetime,
and he wants to
be there now, OK?
And I need to ask about
some drinking situation.
So I want to go about
someone drinking.
OK?
Do you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I don't
know if there was someone
in the family, and I'm not going
to say it was necessarily Rob--
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
Yes, yes, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
I'm not sure it's him.
But it might be a brother.
Or it might be his--
>>AUDIENCE: It
might be his wife,
who is my mom, who just
had a conversation with me
this morning about it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfect.
Thank you.
So remember.
When he first comes through,
he mentioned his wife.
He referred to the wife
that was still here.
So let me just go ask
some more about the-- Yes.
He's saying, yes,
that's exactly right.
I understand that.
That's exactly right.
He's telling me also
that she's taking pills.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I know that
he's concerned about that.
He's concerned about her
mixing certain things.
He's concerned about her taking
certain percentages of pills
that she should be taking,
mixing with other things,
and taking too much.
And she's drinking alcohol.
I know she's very
depressed, and I
know that he comes close
to her every single day.
I know that she talks
to her Robbie every day.
I know that she puts her hand
to her mouth all the time.
I know that she really
sits in depression.
I know that in some ways
she feels unfulfilled.
And I know that in some ways,
she wanted to do more in her
life, and she didn't.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
understand that.
I feel from your father,
as he comes through here,
he tells me that
at one time there
might have been a thought about
her going into medical work
or being a nurse.
>>AUDIENCE: She is a nurse.
>>VAN PRAAGH: She is a nurse.
Thank you very much.
Because I know there has
to be a gift from her,
that certain ability
that her soul has.
And I'm very, very aware
that as she is a nurse now--
and is she currently still
working as a nurse, then?
>>AUDIENCE: She's considering
right now going back into it.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Fabulous.
Funny.
Because I was just
getting in my head,
he said there's going to
be a change in the nursing,
or a change in the career,
or a change in the medical.
And I understand that.
He's a guide of hers.
He loves her very, very much.
And he said he's really sorry.
He's really sorry to
have caused her pain.
He's really sorry
that he did not
express his love enough to her.
That she would understand
it the way she could.
>>AUDIENCE: Right.
It's that old pattern we
were talking about, right?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Is that it?
Because now I'm going at it.
OK.
So.
And how do we know
this is not a pattern
from previous incarnations
that has to be lived out?
But I know from his point
of view and perspective
in the spirit world, he's
coming here very, very strongly
to say, I'm sorry.
Please tell her I'm here.
>>AUDIENCE: Is he
saying anything
about her new boyfriend?
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh, I'm sure
he'll get there eventually,
let's just say.
I'm sure he has a
whole list of things
he wants to talk about here.
I need to ask you a question
as it comes to my mind.
He's talking about
being ill, this man.
Now he's talking to me about
the latter part of his life.
I feel like I can't do
anything for myself.
I feel like I'm laid up.
And I'm not sure, I might--
And I'm talking
about your mother,
here, taking care of
him, and really being
the enabler in some ways.
And I'm going to
say something here.
And I come from my heart.
I'm not judging this.
I'm just observing it
as he comes through.
And there's a part
of your mom, which
is so interesting how
this worked today.
We talked about giving
so much, and over-giving.
And I know that, I know
that-- go on-- your mother
sometimes disables
instead of enables.
A co-dependency there.
And I think he fed
right into that.
I really do.
Unfortunately, she's fallen
into the same pattern
with this man that's
she with right now.
And it's not great.
I'm sorry.
Because that's what
she knows, you see.
And she needs to-- if you
can bring this exercise we
did about releasing
and letting go to her
and helping her with that,
I think she's ready for it.
I think she's bought two
new books, he's telling me,
that she has not read yet.
And they're self-help books,
they're self-improvement books,
but she hasn't even opened them.
You understand that.
Yeah, you know that.
The guy that's with her, he was
married before, was he, please?
Yeah.
I don't feel that relationship
that he was in-- your dad's
going on about-- was not a
great relationship that he
was previously in.
And I want to be-- that's some
not great influences with him.
I want her to start doing
some mirror work, your mother.
And this coming from
me, not from him.
He's saying help, please.
So mirror work, what I say is
on the mirror in the bathroom,
if she'll do it,
write the words,
"Healthy am I, happy
am I, holy am I."
And she says it three
times in the morning,
brushing her teeth.
Three times at night.
And we start using that
vibration, she'll change.
If she wants to change.
You can't make her change.
OK.
I want to talk also-- go on.
I don't know why she got a
hospital bed in that room.
If she brought a
hospital bed in for him.
You understand that?
She did that.
And she redid the room for me.
She put fresh flowers there.
She kept the TV in
a certain place.
She would always talk to me.
And he said, I want to thank
her very much for the soups
as well.
She fed him soup, you know that.
In particular, like
a soup that he liked.
So would you give her his love?
I know that her mind is
still with your father,
even though she's physically
with this other guy.
Can I just say, your dad
doesn't care for the other guy.
Got to say that.
>>AUDIENCE: I don't either.
Good job, Dad.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's
a bit of a low life.
Sorry.
I don't mean to be
judgmental, but it's
the only way I can
description or characteristic.
>>AUDIENCE: I wondered
if he thought so, too.
Yeah.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So I'll
leave you with that.
Please watch-- and
Joseph, also, by the way.
Either Joe or Joseph.
So that means something now.
But ask your mother if there's
a Joseph in the spirit world
that she knew.
Not sure if it's
an uncle of hers,
but there's a man named
Joseph in the spirit world
saying hello to her.
I'll leave you with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want
to come over here.
And I'm going to ask somebody,
who did you want to contact?
Your mom.
And what about you darling?
Your mother.
I thought so.
I don't know why
the two of you--
I feel someone who
you wanted to contact.
Because I'm standing right
here, and I'm getting this
wah-wah-wah-wah!
But I also have another
mother over here.
So I've got to go this lady.
Your mom's passed over.
Your mom?
OK.
So let me just go
one, two, three.
And I also get a gentleman here.
I get a father figure back here.
Your dad passed-- your
brother has passed over.
Let me just see what I can get.
Let me see if I can work that.
Let me just see what I can
get here, whoever comes in.
But I want to invite them in.
So I know I have a
mother here for you.
This lady here.
Would you mind standing?
And what is your name?
>>AUDIENCE: Kathleen.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Kathleen.
So Kathleen, as I connect with
you and your mom, who I know
is here, but not by herself.
So I know I have a lot of people
that come in here around you.
And as you were sitting
here, I was very aware
of the whole area here of
these beings, people, spirits,
just laughing and joking and
having a great sense of humor.
And they're doing the
little bit of an Irish jig
here with me, too.
You see.
So I know I'm Irish, a
bit Irish, because I'm
doing the jig, you see.
And I know they want
to talk about that.
And I know Margaret
is here, too,
with a Margaret's
coming in, too.
OK?
Yeah, you understand the name
Margaret from the spirit world
as well.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know that you
would understand about Ireland.
I know you'd understand that.
And I know a lot of people
had come from Ireland
to this country.
You understand that?
And I feel something, I
have a brogue going on.
See, I know they're
coming through me here.
So let me go through
the names that I get.
So it's very interesting,
because I've worked in Ireland.
So they can-- the
spirit world uses that.
There's a John.
There is a Michael-- and
I'm going to tell you that,
over in the spirit world.
And there's definitely a Marion.
All these Irish names.
But I've got to
give them to you.
I'm not sure one is a
grandmother, the Mary person,
who was the Mary that passed
over, then, in spirit?
>>AUDIENCE: Could be an aunt.
>>VAN PRAAGH: A
great aunt of yours?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because then
it'd be grandmother's level.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Great.
I'm just going to say-- and
I know your mom's here, too,
but I know Dad has also
passed over, isn't that right?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because
for some reason,
as I tune into your
family members,
I want to bring the father
in close to you, OK?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I gotta tell you
that he's wearing his jacket.
He's wearing a very nice suit.
He's very dressed
up for the occasion,
because he doesn't
always dress up, you see.
But he wanted to
dress up for you now.
Now I want to tell you
that I'm very proud of you.
And I want to tell you
that he wasn't proud
that he didn't say that
enough to you in the lifetime.
You understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I
know when your father comes
through to me, he really,
really is, in a way,
apologizing that he
wasn't able to let things
out and through his
heart for you, OK?
I got to tell you that.
I know there was someone that
used to work in the war time,
or was in the
military at one point.
And I think it hurt
them or damaged them,
or something happened
in the military.
>>AUDIENCE: That was my father.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That was your dad.
OK, great.
Because I know that
I come here with him.
And I know I have the sense of
being in the war or military.
And it really changed
me very much so.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
I believe that.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And
I know physically,
as well, it changed me as well.
Mentally changed me,
physically changed me,
and emotionally changed me.
And he said everything
that he lost in that war
he's gained now through you
and the rest of the family.
And I know your dad
wants to come back here
with two other
brothers of his own.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, probably.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Oh yes, it does.
And I know I want to
talk about music here.
And I want to talk about also
smoking a pipe at one point.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, absolutely.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Absolutely.
Because I get that very,
very strong with you.
I know music is a big
deal for your dad as well.
I know I've met
up with your mom.
I've met up with your mom.
Now I don't know why he's
speaking like this to me,
but he is.
He was not from Ireland,
but he was from here?
>>AUDIENCE: He was from Canada,
>>VAN PRAAGH: He
was from Canada.
Which is not Ireland.
>>AUDIENCE: No.
>>VAN PRAAGH: But he
speaks so interestingly,
because the way he's
talking to me is different.
But I got to say, he must
have some Irish heritage,
or someone came from
Ireland originally.
Was it part of your family?
>>AUDIENCE: Actually,
that's on my mother's side.
But my father likes accents.
And he was very good at accents.
>>VAN PRAAGH: He's
playing with me!
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
He does a very effective
Scandinavian accent as well.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Ah, OK, OK, OK.
How interesting.
And I thought I
was a strange one.
I know with this
man, and I'm going
to say he's tight with money.
I don't want to say he
was tight with money,
but he was a little bit.
He knew where every cent went.
And he was very
much aware of that.
Now I know there might
have been depression,
awareness of the Depression,
and lived during the Depression,
and I think that influenced
his ways of thinking
and his values of
money and so forth, OK?
I know that he, for
some reason, showing
me letters in an envelope.
So sending the
letters all the time.
Now I know you must have
received mail from him, posts
from him at one point.
>>AUDIENCE: I didn't but--
>>VAN PRAAGH: Who did?
>>AUDIENCE: My mother did.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And do you
have those post letters?
>>AUDIENCE: I have a
couple of them, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: OK.
Good.
So he's just bringing that into
my awareness and consciousness.
And that's very, very
mindful that he's
talking about you
seeing them recently.
And either you were
looking at them,
or you were aware
that you have them.
Correct?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And weren't you
just recently looking at them?
>>AUDIENCE: I was.
I went through an old box.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Thank you.
I know it was recently,
because he's telling me that.
I could have been
about two weeks ago.
>>AUDIENCE: Approximately.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I know that your
dad wants me to talk to you.
Your mother is right
here, but she's
letting him speak,
which is fine.
It's OK for right now.
But he wants to talk about
old trains, something
to do with the trains.
And we're going to train ride.
And I want to go to
the memory of that.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, he
used to ride the rails.
>>VAN PRAAGH: There you go.
OK.
Perfect.
So I know that I
have that man here
with his trains and his rail.
That's great.
And I know I love doing that.
I know I love my adventurous
spirit with this man.
I know that I died.
I tried to live as much life
as I could when I was alive.
I could say this man
lived his life out.
He didn't waste time.
He really lived
the most he could.
I know that he liked geography.
I know that he liked maps.
I know that he--
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes I do.
We had a big map of the
world on a wall in our house.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Perfecto.
Perfecto.
Did you go to your grandparents'
house then all the time?
>>AUDIENCE: A lot, yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You
did, didn't you?
Would you remember a
skeleton key in a door?
That you used to play with?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Isn't that weird?
>>AUDIENCE: It is weird!
>>VAN PRAAGH: That's
your grandmother's house.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: That
is very weird.
And I know that I'm around four
years-- you were around four
years old, five years old, and
they have this skeleton key,
and she said she was
fascinated with the skeleton
key in the doorway.
And that's pretty
bizarre, but that's just
the way she's giving it.
>>AUDIENCE: Well, as
you describe it now,
I actually see the key hole,
and the key I used to practi--
play putting it in.
>>VAN PRAAGH: All the time.
All the time.
Now I'm just very aware of that.
I'm very aware of your mother
wanting to say, I'm OK.
I want you to know
your mother's fine.
You sent her off well.
>>AUDIENCE: Oh, good.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You know that.
Because you helped
your mother pass over.
>>AUDIENCE: OK.
Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Do
you understand that?
>>AUDIENCE: Yes, I do.
>>VAN PRAAGH: So we need to give
you the honor that you deserve,
because you helped her.
And she said when other people
wouldn't help me, you did.
It feels like other people
deserted me, and you did not.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you.
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I'm very aware
of that, taking care of her.
And you saw her when she was
ill, didn't you, your mom.
And I know you're standing there
on the left side of the bed.
>>AUDIENCE: Yes.
>>VAN PRAAGH: You're
standing on the left side
of the bed looking at her.
I know you're trying to make
her hair look very, very nice.
What hair she had left.
>>AUDIENCE: She kept saying,
"Don't touch my hair."
>>VAN PRAAGH: Because I'm
very aware that you're
standing on the left side of the
bed and working with her hair,
and you're trying to make her
look beautiful and pretty.
I know you're giving
her a lot to drink,
as far as water and fluids.
I know that you do.
I know that there was some
medication she had to take.
You make sure of it.
She's telling me
pills, but she's also
giving me a little bit
of liquid, just to drink,
something with drink,
a little medication.
Do you understand that?
Very interesting isn't it?
She showed me that
really, really clearly.
And I don't like the taste.
It's very bitter.
Very, very bitter.
>>AUDIENCE: She
was very outspoken.
>>VAN PRAAGH: Yeah,
very outspoken.
If she didn't like
you, she tells you.
She does, she does.
She likes that.
She doesn't like
that in the house.
She doesn't like what you've
done with that pillows.
The pillows on the sofa.
She says you've got some
new pillows on that sofa,
and you were looking--
you understand that?
And she doesn't like them.
She's very strong
and opinionated.
Yes, she certainly is!
Very interesting.
>>AUDIENCE: She definitely is!
>>VAN PRAAGH: And I
know that there-- she
has a hard times speaking
at the end of her life.
This was a hard time.
In a way she wants to really
communicate, but she can't.
And that was really
frustrating for her.
But isn't it interesting, in the
lifetime, how what we give out
we get back in some ways?
And it was a way where she
had to learn to listen,
because in the lifetime
she spoke too much,
and she had to learn to listen.
And that was one
of her lessons she
had to continue and
finish and complete
before she passed into spirit.
So lots of love from them.
I leave you with that.
>>AUDIENCE: Thank you so much.
>>VAN PRAAGH: I want to
thank you all very, very much
for being here today.
And I just want you to use the
lessons from the spirit world.
Whenever I do this
show, it's really
they're giving me
the information
to share with you as far as
the lessons, the insights.
And please use that.
And let go of all that that
does not serve your purpose.
Don't waste the time
you have here on earth.
It's very, very important.
Very special.
Time is fleeting.
Time here on this earth is
very small-- 70, 80, 90 years
is nothing in the
scheme of things.
So make every moment count.
So thank you all
very, very much.
And thank you.
And until next time, love and
light to every single one here.
And you.
Bye-bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]